Document the system audit-log #209 (#384)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/auditLogs.adoc

= Audit Logs
:toc: right

XP registers only successfully completed actions in the `system.auditlog` repository for `content`, `applications`, `principals` and `ID providers`.

== Principals and ID providers

In order to enable or disable audit logs for `ID providers` and principals entities such as `users`, `roles` and `groups` you have to reference to the `com.enonic.xp.security.cfg` configuration file and set value as `true` to enable and as `false` to disable for the `auditlog.enabled` option. Default value is `true`.

.com.enonic.xp.security.cfg
[source,properties]
----

auditlog.enabled = true
----

=== XP registers the following actions for principals and ID providers:

* `system.security.principal.create` - a principal (user, group or role) has been created
* `system.security.principal.update` - a principal (user, group or role) has been updated
* `system.security.principal.delete` - a principal (user, group or role) has been deleted

> * `system.security.principal.addRelationship` - a relationship has been added to principal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system.security.principal.addRelationship` - a principal joins a group or a role
```

> * `system.security.principal.removeRelationship` - a relationship has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system.security.principal.removeRelationship` - a principal leaves a group or a role
```

> * `system.security.principal.removeRelationships` - all relationships have been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system.security.principal.removeRelationships` - all group or role relationships have been removed (deprecated)
```

> * `system.security.principal.setPassword` - a password has been set for a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system.security.principal.setPassword` - new password has been set for a user
```

[source,JSON]
----
{
  "type": "system.security.principal.addRelationship",
  "source": "com.enonic.xp.security",
  "user": "user:system:admin",
  "objects": ["user:system:username","group:system:usergroup"],
  "data": {
    "params": {
      "principal": "user:system:username",
      "group": "group:system:usergroup"
    }
  }
}
----

Role `role:system.admin` has been assigned to user `user:system:username`.
[source,JSON]
----
{
  "type": "system.security.principal.addRelationship",
  "source": "com.enonic.xp.security",
  "user": "user:system:admin",
  "objects": ["user:system:username","role:system.admin"],
  "data": {
    "params": {
      "principal": "user:system:username",
      "role": "role:system.admin"
    }
  }
}
----

Group `group:system:group1` has been added to group `group:system:group2`.
[source,JSON]
----
{
  "type": "system.security.principal.addRelationship",
  "source": "com.enonic.xp.security",
  "user": "user:system:admin",
  "objects": ["group:system:group1","group:system:group2"],
  "data": {
    "params": {
      "principal": "group:system:group1",
      "group": "group:system:group2"
    }
  }
}
----

.`system.security.principal.removeRelationship`

> Role `role:system.admin` has been unassigned to user `user:system:username`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role `role:system.admin` has been unassigned from user `user:system:username`.
```

[source,JSON]
----
{
  "type": "system.security.principal.removeRelationship",
  "source": "com.enonic.xp.security",
  "user": "user:system:admin",
  "objects": ["user:system:username","role:system.admin"],
  "data": {
    "params": {
      "principal": "user:system:username",
      "leaves": "role:system.admin"
    }
  }
}
----

.`system.security.principal.removeRelationships`

Remove all relationships from `group:system:usergroup`.
[source,JSON]
----
{
 "type": "system.security.principal.removeRelationships",
  "source": "com.enonic.xp.security",
  "user": "user:system:admin",
  "objects": "group:system:usergroup",
  "data": {
    "params": {
      "from": "group:system:usergroup"
    }
  }
}

> ----

Reviewer: Not sure it should be documented. It only appears when deprecated method is called

= Audit Logs
:toc: right

XP registers only successfully completed actions in the `system.auditlog` repository for `content`, `applications`, `principals` and `ID providers`.

== Principals and ID providers

> In order to enable or disable audit logs for `ID providers` and principals entities such as `users`, `roles` and `groups` you have to reference to the `com.enonic.xp.security.cfg` configuration file and set value as `true` to enable and as `false` to disable for the `auditlog.enabled` option. Default value is `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to enable or disable audit logs for `ID providers` and principals entities such as `users`, `roles` and `groups` you have to reference to the `com.enonic.xp.security.cfg` configuration file and set value as `true` to enable and as `false` to disable for the `auditlog.enabled` option. Default value is `true`.
```

.com.enonic.xp.security.cfg
[source,properties]
----

auditlog.enabled = true
----

=== XP registers the following actions for principals and ID providers:

* `system.user.create` - a user has been created
* `system.user.update` - a user has been updated
* `system.group.create` - a group has been created
* `system.group.update` - a group has been updated
* `system.role.create` - a role has been created
* `system.role.update` - a role has been updated
* `system.principal.delete` - a principal (user, group or role) has been deleted
* `system.principal.addRelationship` - a relationship has been added to principal, for instance, a `role` to a `user`
* `system.principal.removeRelationship` - a relationship has been removed

> * `system.principal.removeRelationships` - all relationships has been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system.principal.removeRelationships` - all relationships have been removed
```

* `system.user.setPassword` - a password has been set for a user
* `system.idProvider.create` - an ID provider has been created
* `system.idProvider.update` - an ID provider has been updated
* `system.idProvider.delete` - an ID provider has been deleted

== Application

> In order to enable or disable audit logs for `Applications` you have to reference to the `com.enonic.xp.app.cfg` configuration file and set value as `true` to enable and as `false` to disable for the `auditlog.enabled` option. Default value is `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to enable or disable audit logs for `Applications` you have to reference to the `com.enonic.xp.app.cfg` configuration file and set value as `true` to enable and as `false` to disable for the `auditlog.enabled` option. Default value is `true`.
```
